[Music]
these pea-sized vessels are the work of
another kind of wasp a potter wasp
once again saliva is an important
ingredient it prevents the mud from
crumbling when it dries with jaws
scissoring away on the inside to keep
the mud properly mixed and fluid and
front legs checking the thickness of the
wall on the other she lays the mud round
and round in a strip using a technique
that human potters call coiling
when the main body of the pot is
finished this greatly accomplished
Potter brings another ball of mud and
adds a final and most elegant Farish
[Music]
in goes an egg
now the cells must be provisioned a
potter wasp doesn't feed her larvae on
chewed bodies nor does she supply honey
she gives it living food a caterpillar
paralyzed by her sting the lip built so
carefully around the entrance helps to
guide it in
[Music]
the mouth of the pot will then be sealed
with a clay pellet and the lip removed
the larva having eaten its caterpillar
and turned into an adult emerges by
breaking through the side of the pot but
although abandoned the tough pots
survived for several years a lot of work
is invested in one of these holes and if
one seems vacant another was will try to
claim it once the Burrow is finished
the female performs an elaborate dance
around it familiarizing herself with its
surroundings so that she knows exactly
where it is and then she conceals it so
that none but she is likely to find it
her nursery must now be provisioned and
for that she needs fresh meat a
caterpillar first she paralyzes it with
her sting thanks to her dance she knows
exactly where her hidden the hole lies
each burrow will have several
caterpillars in it and each addition
requires the same stopping and
unstopping of the tunnel entrance the
urge to collect caterpillars is so
strong that they'll pick them up
wherever they find them watch this
she has already laid a long yellow egg
on the first caterpillar when the tunnel
is full she seals it with special care
she uses a grain of gravel like a
pneumatic Ram by breaking it by buzzing
her wing muscles one of the few
instances of an insect using a tool in a
few days time when the egg hatches the
grub will find fresh meat awaiting it
these cabbage white caterpillars are
also doomed another species of wasp
injects them not with paralyzing poison
but with eggs
day after day the caterpillars grow and
mature apparently unaffected but inside
them the wasp eggs are developing
[Music]
having fed so richly on the entrails of
their caterpillar hosts the wasp grubs
are ready to pupate as soon as they
emerge and they start straightaway to
spin their silken cocoons ten days later
they have become adult wasps and are
themselves starting to search for
caterpillars this is one of them from
the purposeful way in which he's walking
it's clear that the search her prayers
started the other members of the team
aren't far away they've been steadily
following the monkeys for about 20
minutes looking for an opportunity
[Music]
the technique there on a certain use is
that one of them will be a driving
recall of us ahead of him then there
will be others that go up on either side
who are the lockers who won't make any
attempt to catch the monkeys and then
their faces who go and grab at the
monkey if they can and finally there's
one male who will go up ahead and ambush
it so bringing the whole trap closer
the monkeys are now getting alarmed a
driver's going up to prevent the group
from settling and to drive them towards
an area where they're more easily
trapped
that's that's one of the bloggers says
now what has Lee come ahead to colobus
and his halfway up the tree now he's
deliberately making himself conspicuous
no it looks too sir they're all in
position the drivers gone them up the
blockers have gone up and now the one
who's gonna make the ambush and close
the ring he's gone up to a colobus of
his very lucky escape now
the top one
[Applause]
the hunters are tearing it apart
everyone the hunters in the trees and
the spectators on the ground are
screaming with excitement
and now the kill is brought down so that
the females and others can share it and
there's a reward for that long chase the
divided body of a colobus monkey these
blood-stained faces may well horrify us
but we might also see in them the face
of our long distant and egg ancestors
and if we are appalled by that
non-violence bloodlust we might also see
in that - perhaps the origins of the
teamwork but of in the end brought human
beings many of their greatest triumphs
[Music]
in queue was 30 or 40 strong they head
for the drop-off on the ocean side of
the lagoon
[Music]
it seems that they know the way from the
overall direction of current and swell
which remains constant at this depth
[Music]
lines joined together into longer lines
sometimes 60 lobsters will be marching
one behind the other
the migration takes place within a few
days each year and then the whole lagoon
floor is covered with parallel marching
columns traveling in line reduces the
drag of the water on an individual by as
much as half but there's another reason
why it's better to march in this way if
they are threatened they can form
defensive circles a triggerfish one of
their main enemies it wants to attack
the vulnerable legs but it has little
chance of getting past the ring of spear
like an Timmy
but a solitary traveler is in trouble
first it's disarmed then the rest is
easy
[Music]
there are others ready to pick flesh
from the broken limbs within a few
minutes all that is left is an empty
shell
[Music]
when the survivors reached the shelter
of the rich reefs that run along the
edge of the ocean drop-off they abandon
the caravans and each makes its own way
one by one they clamber down the slope
to even greater depths where there will
be safe from the storms that churn the
waters hundreds of feet above no other
whale deliberately beaches itself in
this way all has perfected this method
of getting back to the sea
as long as the seal and stay well up the
beach you might think they would be safe
but the hungry whales are very daring
now several of the whales are hunting in
a group
[Music]
[Applause]
that salon is keeping just ahead of one
of the whales but was caught by another
it probably hadn't seen
this savage beating maybe two separate
hide from flesh
but very often the successful hunter
takes its victims straight out to sea
without even killing it
and there it plays with its catch as if
it were exalting in triumph
[Music]
to get all the food it needs a killer
whale must catch at least three sea lion
pups a day and every day throughout the
breeding season this group of skilled
highly intelligent hunters do just that
[Music]
[Applause]